[Generic Database Connector] Added documentation for Oracle Database in developing.md (#556)
elastic/connectors-python: docs/DEVELOPING.md

ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [configure Azure Blob Storage connector](#configure-azure-blob-storage-connector)

## Oracle Database Connector

> The [Elastic Oracle connector](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/8.7/connectors/sources/oracle.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

Author: Since we had a discussion with @danajuratoni for `network drive` and `Amazon S3` to point to `8.6` branch and now `gcs`, `abs` and `generic database` is part of `8.7` release we pointing to `8.7` branch.

> The [Elastic Oracle connector](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/8.7/connectors/sources/oracle.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

Author: As per the previous discussion for `network drive` and `S3`. We point to a specific branch.

> The [Elastic Oracle connector](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/8.7/connectors/sources/oracle.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

Reviewer: Main reason is to not leave the branch with the connector client when clicking the link.
This was clarified in #549 (comment)
and I'm good to use Chenhui's suggestion as that is more flexible as still keeps the users in the selected branch.

> The [Elastic Oracle connector](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/8.7/connectors/sources/oracle.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

Author: Replace with a relative link.

> The [Elastic Oracle Database connector](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/blob/8.7/connectors/sources/oracle.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

Reviewer 2: We should also include the versions and editions of Oracle database we intend to support.

> ### Availability and prerequisites

Reviewer 2: For users who are fetching from non-system tables, can we also document the minimum privileges required for the database user for the connector to fetch data from these user tables?

Reviewer 2: We should also include the versions and editions of Oracle database we intend to support.

Reviewer 3: **++**

Author: Added note for privileges. Also, I added versions of Oracle.

⚠️ _Currently, this connector is available in **beta** starting in 8.7_.
Features in beta are subject to change and are not covered by the service level agreement (SLA) of features that have reached general availability (GA).

Elastic versions 8.6.0+ are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks. Your deployment must include the Elasticsearch, Kibana, and Enterprise Search services.

### Setup and basic usage

Complete the following steps to deploy the connector:

1. [Gather Oracle details](#gather-oracle-details)
2. [Configure Oracle connector](#configure-oracle-connector)

#### Gather Oracle details

> Collect the information that is required to connect to your Oracle:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Collect the information that is required to connect to your Oracle Database:
```

- The server host address where the Oracle is hosted.

> - The port where the Oracle server is hosted.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The port on which the Oracle server runs
```

> - The server host address where the Oracle is hosted.
> - The port on which the Oracle server runs
> - The username the connector will use to log in to Oracle.
> - The password the connector will use to log in to Oracle.
> - The Oracle database name to ingest data from.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The server host address where the Oracle Database is hosted.
- The port on where the Oracle Database is hosted
- The username the connector will use to log in to the Oracle Database.
- The password the connector will use to log in to the Oracle Database.
- The database name where the connector will query data.
```

> - The Oracle database name where the connector will crawl to fetch rows.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The Oracle database name to ingest data from.
```

> - The database name where the connector will query data.

Reviewer 2: Do we only support database name, or also service name?

Author: No, currently we are not supporting the service name. But we are using SID to connect with the oracle database. for simplicity change database to SID.

#### Configure Oracle connector

The following configuration fields need to be provided for setting up the connector:

##### `host`

> The server host address where the Oracle server is hosted. Default value is `127.0.0.1`. Examples:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The server host address where the Oracle Database is hosted. Default value is `127.0.0.1`. Examples:
```

> The server host address where the Oracle is hosted. Default value is `127.0.0.1`. Examples:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The server host address where the Oracle server is hosted. Default value is `127.0.0.1`. Examples:
```

  - `192.158.1.38`
  - `demo.instance.demo-region.demo.service.com`

##### `port`

> The server port where the Oracle server runs on. Default value is `9090`. i.e. For a secured connection, a user needs to configure a SSL port.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The port where the Oracle Database is hosted. Default value is `9090`. Note: For a secured connection, a user needs to configure a SSL port.
```

> The server port where Oracle service is available. Default value is `9090`. i.e. For secured connection, user needs to pass SSL port.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The server port where the Oracle server runs on. Default value is `9090`. i.e. For a secured connection, a user needs to configure a SSL port.
```

  - `5432`
  - `9090`

##### `user`

> The username of the account for Oracle. Default value is `admin`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The username of the account for Oracle Database. Default value is `admin`.
```

> The username of the account for Oracle. Default value is `admin`. Examples:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The username of the account for Oracle. Default value is `admin`.
```

##### `password`

> The password of the account to be used for the Oracle server. Default value is `Password_123`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The password of the account to be used for the Oracle Database. Default value is `Password_123`.
```

> The password of the account to be used for the Oracle. Default value is `Password_123`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The password of the account to be used for the Oracle server. Default value is `Password_123`.
```

##### `database`

> Name of the Oracle database. Default value is `xe`. Examples:

Reviewer 2: Should we have no default for this setting and simply document that the default database name when using Oracle Database Express Edition is `xe`?

Author: Added note for all default parameters [here](https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/pull/556/files#diff-f8ff34865ce88864196f2848aebde961f27a4c1e8ce77313a4254dd948d32cfbR441)

  - `employee_database`
  - `customer_database`

##### `tables`

> Comma-separated list of tables. For * in string connector will fetch data for all the Tables. Default value is `*`. Examples:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Comma-separated list of tables. The Oracle connector will fetch data from all tables present in the configured database, if the value is `*` . Default value is `*`. Examples:
```

> Comma-separated list of tables. The Oracle connector will fetch data from all tables present in the configured database, if the value is `*` . Default value is `*`. Examples:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Comma-separated list of tables. The Oracle Database connector will fetch data from all tables present in the configured database, if the value is `*`. Default value is `*`. Examples:
```

  - `table_1, table_2`
  - `*`

##### `fetch_size`

> Number of rows to fetch on each call. Default value is `50`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Number of rows to fetch on each request to Oracle Database. Default value is `50`.
```

##### `retry_count`

> The number of retry attempts after failed call to Oracle. Default value is `3`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The number of retry attempts after failed request to Oracle Database. Default value is `3`.
```

##### `oracle_protocol`

> Protocol which connector use to established connection. Default value is `TCP`. i.e. For secured connection, user needs to pass `TCPS`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Protocol which the connector uses to establish a connection. Default value is `TCP`. i.e. For a secured connection, a user needs to pass `TCPS`.
```

> Protocol which the connector uses to establish a connection. Default value is `TCP`. i.e. For a secured connection, a user needs to pass `TCPS`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The protocol which the connector uses to establish a connection. Default value is `TCP`. Note: For a secured connection, a user needs to use `TCPS`.
```

> The number of retry attempts after failed request to Oracle Database. Default value is `3`.

Reviewer 2: It can be helpful to provide some information on the tradeoff of increasing the $ of retries and if there's a max # that can be retried or if if there's a setting for no retry limit.

##### `oracle_home`

> Path of the Oracle home directory to run  connector with thick mode for secured connection. Default value is `None`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Path of the Oracle home directory to run connector with thick mode for secured connection. Default value is `None`.
```

> Path of the Oracle home directory to run connector with thick mode for secured connection. Default value is `None`.

Reviewer 4: I believe `None` is what is present in the python backend. 

Is this optional?

Author: Sure, remove `None` and add Note for empty field

##### `wallet_configuration_path`

> Path of the directory where oracle configuration files are present. Only applicable while configuration files are not at default location. Default value is `None`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Path of the oracle configuration files. Only applicable when configuration files are not at the default location. Default value is `None`.
```

> Path of the Oracle home directory to run connector with thick mode for secured connection. Note: In case of unsecured connection, keep `oracle_home` field empty.

Reviewer 2: We mentioned thick mode here.  Does our Python connector always uses thick client libraries to connect with Oracle?  Or do we mean that by setting `oracle_home`, it will switch to using thick mode and thick mode is required only for secured connection?  Will be helpful to clarify here.  In general, it can be helpful to explain how the Python connector connectors to an Oracle database in an intro section of this documentation.

Author: By default `oracle_home` field is empty so the connector will run under thin mode. but if the user set `oracle_home` field then the connector will run with thick mode. Added default mode in doc.

### Setup for a secured connection with Oracle

>  - User needs to install Oracle service in system where connector is running.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - User needs to install the Oracle service on the system where the connector is running.
```

>  - Set the `oracle_home` parameter to the location of your Oracle home directory, If configuration files are not at default location set `wallet_configuration_path` parameter.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - Set the `oracle_home` parameter to the location of your Oracle home directory, if configuration files are not at default location set `wallet_configuration_path` parameter.
```

> Path of the oracle configuration files. Only applicable when configuration files are not at the default location. Note: If Wallet configuration files are located at default location, keep `wallet_configuration_path` field empty.

Reviewer 2: By "oracle configuration files", are we referring to standard Oracle database configuration files? Or are we referring to Oracle Wallet (e.g. https://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1213/wls/JDBCA/oraclewallet.htm) which is a way to secure credentials in Oracle across domains?

Reviewer 2: In the subsequent section, we talk about setting a secured connection with Oracle with instructions to store the wallet at `$ORACLE_HOME/ssl_wallet`.  Does it mean that when we say "Only applicable when configuration files are not at the default location", the default location is `$ORACLE_HOME/ssl_wallet`? If so, it can be helpful to include that in the description of the setting.

Author: By wallet_configuration_path it contains files like `sqlnet.ora` and `tnsadmin.ora`  which is by default available at `$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin`. Added description for default path.

>  - Set the `oracle_home` parameter to the location of your Oracle home directory, if configuration files are not at default location set `wallet_configuration_path` parameter.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - Set the `oracle_home` parameter to the location of your Oracle home directory. If configuration files are not at the default location, set `wallet_configuration_path` parameter.
```

  - Now create a directory to store the wallet.
```shell
$ mkdir $ORACLE_HOME/ssl_wallet
```
  - User needs to create `sqlnet.ora` at `$ORACLE_HOME/network/admin` location and add the following content.
```
WALLET_LOCATION = (SOURCE = (METHOD = FILE) (METHOD_DATA = (DIRECTORY = $ORACLE_HOME/ssl_wallet))) 
SSL_CLIENT_AUTHENTICATION = FALSE 
SSL_VERSION = 1.0 
SSL_CIPHER_SUITES = (SSL_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA) 
SSL_SERVER_DN_MATCH = ON
```
  - Then execute the following commands to create a wallet and attach an SSL certificate.
```shell
$ orapki wallet create -wallet path-to-oracle-home/ssl_wallet -auto_login_only

$ orapki wallet add -wallet path-to-oracle-home/ssl_wallet -trusted_cert -cert path-to-oracle-home/ssl_wallet/root_ca.pem -auto_login_only
```
Replace the file name with your file.

> ℹ️ For more information, please refer following [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Appendix.Oracle.Options.SSL.html)

Reviewer 2: I am confused by the link to AmazonRDS documentation.  Are we saying that the Python connector connects to a secured Oracle server _only via_ AmazonRDS?

Author: It's because in this link steps are more accurate and simple.

Reviewer 3: I agree that linking to AmazonRDS docs, without explaining why, is confusing.

Author: Added more description about amazon rds link

### Connector Limitations

- If the value of the table's system change number (SCN) is not between the `min(SCN)` and `max(SCN)` values of the `SMON_SCN_TIME` table, the connector will not be able to retrieve the most recently updated time, and data will index in every sync. For more details check out the following [documentation](https://community.oracle.com/tech/apps-infra/discussion/4076446/show-error-about-ora-08181-specified-number-is-not-a-valid-system-change-number-when-using-scn-t).

> - The Oracle database connector does not allow sys user as it contains 1000+ system tables which are irrelevant for users. If the user is working with `sys` user, the user needs to pass either `sysdba` or `sysoper` mode.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The Oracle database connector does not allow the `sys` user as it contains 1000+ system tables which are irrelevant for users. If the user is working with `sys` user, the user needs to pass either `sysdba` or `sysoper` mode.
```

> - The Oracle database connector does not allow the `sys` user as it contains 1000+ system tables which are irrelevant for users. If the user is working with `sys` user, the user needs to pass either `sysdba` or `sysoper` mode.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The Oracle Database connector does not allow the `sys` user as it contains 1000+ system tables which are irrelevant for users. If the user is working with `sys` user, the user needs to pass either `sysdba` or `sysoper` mode.
```

> - If the value of the table's system change number (SCN) is not between the `min(SCN)` and `max(SCN)` values of the `SMON_SCN_TIME` table, the connector will not be able to retrieve the most recently updated time, and data will index in every sync. For more details check out the following [documentation](https://community.oracle.com/tech/apps-infra/discussion/4076446/show-error-about-ora-08181-specified-number-is-not-a-valid-system-change-number-when-using-scn-t).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If the value of the table's system change number (SCN) is not between the `min(SCN)` and `max(SCN)` values of the `SMON_SCN_TIME` table, the connector will not be able to retrieve the most recently updated time, and data will be indexed in every sync. For more details check out the following [documentation](https://community.oracle.com/tech/apps-infra/discussion/4076446/show-error-about-ora-08181-specified-number-is-not-a-valid-system-change-number-when-using-scn-t).
```

Author: Done

> - Permission are not synced. **All documents** indexed to an Elastic deployment will be visible to all the users having access to that Elastic Deployment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Permissions are not synced. **All documents** indexed to an Elastic deployment will be visible to **all users with access** to that Elastic Deployment.
```

> - The Oracle Database connector does not allow the `sys` user as it contains 1000+ system tables which are irrelevant for users. If the user is working with `sys` user, the user needs to pass either `sysdba` or `sysoper` mode.

Reviewer 2: For users who are fetching from non-system tables, can we specify the minimum privileges required for the database user for the connector to fetch data from these user tables?

- Filtering rules are not available in the present version. Currently, the filtering is controlled via ingest pipelines.

### E2E Tests

The framework provides a way to test ingestion through a connector against a real data source. This is called a functional test. To execute a functional test for the Oracle connector, run the following command:
```shell
$ make ftest NAME=oracle
```

ℹ️ Users do not need to have a running Elasticsearch instance or an Oracle source to run this test. The docker compose file manages the complete setup of the development environment, i.e. both the mock Elastic instance and mock Oracle source using the docker image.

> ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [configure oracle connector](#configure-oracle-connector)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [Configure Oracle Database connector](#configure-oracle-database-connector)
```

ℹ️ The e2e test uses default values defined in [configure Azure Blob Storage connector](#configure-azure-blob-storage-connector)

## Oracle Database Connector

The [Elastic Oracle Database connector](../connectors/sources/oracle.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

### Availability and prerequisites

⚠️ _Currently, this connector is available in **beta** starting in 8.7_.
Features in beta are subject to change and are not covered by the service level agreement (SLA) of features that have reached general availability (GA).

Elastic versions 8.6.0+ are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks. Your deployment must include the Elasticsearch, Kibana, and Enterprise Search services.

Oracle Database versions 18c, 19c and 21c are compatible with Elastic connector frameworks.

> **Prerequisite**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites**
```

> - Grant `CONNECT`, `DBA` privilege to the database user and user should hold the ownership of the tables to indexed the data..

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The database user should have `CONNECT` and `DBA` privileges and should be the  owner of the tables to be indexed.
```

I think this makes more sense?
